.\" Manpage for maclean.
.\" Contact: https://github.com/maclean/maclean
.TH maclean 1 "March 2026" "1.0.0" "maclean manual"
.SH NAME
maclean \- macOS Input Blocker for physical cleaning
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B maclean
[<seconds>] [touch]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B maclean
is a lightweight macOS utility designed to block system-wide keyboard and mouse input temporarily. This allows you to physically clean your Mac's input devices without triggering accidental clicks or key presses.
.PP
The tool relies on macOS \fBCGEventTap\fR APIs and requires Accessibility permissions to function. 
.PP
If no arguments are provided, it defaults to blocking for 60 seconds. You can provide a timeout duration, require Touch ID, or both.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR <seconds>
The duration in seconds to block input. Input is automatically restored after the timer expires.
.TP
.BR touch
Require biometric authentication (Touch ID) to unlock input.
.TP
.B \-\-help, \-h
Print usage instructions.
.TP
.B \-\-version, \-v
Print the installed version of maclean.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Block input for exactly 60 seconds (default):
.B maclean
.TP
Block input for exactly 30 seconds:
.B maclean 30
.TP
Block input indefinitely until Touch ID is verified:
.B maclean touch
.TP
Block input for 120 seconds OR until Touch ID is verified:
.B maclean 120 touch
.SH EXIT STATUS
Returns 0 on successful execution and clean unblock. Returns >0 if an error occurs (e.g., Accessibility permission denied, invalid arguments).
.SH PERMISSIONS
Maclean requires Accessibility permissions. To grant access:
.br
Go to \fBSystem Settings\fR -> \fBPrivacy & Security\fR -> \fBAccessibility\fR
.br
Toggle the switch for \fBMaclean\fR (or your terminal application) to ON.
.SH SAFE UNBLOCK CHORD
If maclean crashes or hangs unexpectedly, or if you need to end the session immediately without Touch ID or waiting for the timer, press simultaneously:
.br
\fBLeft Shift + Right Shift + Escape\fR
.SH BUGS
Report bugs on GitHub at \fBhttps://github.com/maclean/maclean/issues\fR
.SH AUTHORS
Maclean Open Source Community
